# master_thesis_llm_for_environmental_sustainability_decisions
Master Thesis - Effectiveness of Closed-Source AI Models in Environmental Sustainability Tasks: Insights from Few-shot Learning Experiments

This study investigates how large language models (LLMs) can support environmental sustainability decisions. By exploring how these models generalize patterns, adapt to variations in input, and manage noise, the research evaluates the effectiveness of LLM use in the context of environmental challenges. We first focus on choosing the relevant indicators to assess LLM responses by a human rater, based on research literature review.  Next, we explore the boundaries and behavior of LLMs answering to domain related prompts. We finally assess LLMs in-context learning capabilities based on few-shot learning, without requiring parameter updates. For the experimental prompts we use cases from environmental sustainability related areas such as pollution, energy management, waste reduction, and climate change mitigation.
By conducting this work, we target every person interested in using LLMs to support their decisions regarding environmental sustainability. We conduct 25 experiments by executing zero-shot and N-shot prompts using a LLM-based conversational AI tool (MS Copilot).  We show strengths and weaknesses of LLM responses and analyze these in detail from qualitative and quantitative perspectives. By doing so, we uncover an error rate of 39% across all prompts and a average score of 3,28 on 5 for execution of zero-shot prompts. We then show empirically using N-shot techniques in the prompt that the score improves to 3.97 on 5 thanks to LLM in-context learning capabilities.
